what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose I've just
finished a very long day on clinical
placement I was attached at the
cardiology ward today and I saw a whole
range of patients from ones with heart
failure to myocarditis to a cardiac
arrest so it's been a very interesting
day but also really really tiring so now
that I'm home I just want to relax I
want to do something fun and chill I've
seen a bunch of other videos where
medical students or doctors react to
medical school memes about like medical
school and so I thought I would try it
out quick plug follow me on Instagram I
post there quite often about my daily
life at medical school and all kinds of
interesting things I also go live on
there every now and again and do q and
A's and things like that so yeah feel
free to follow me over there if you're
interested at all I motivate myself to
study with snacks you see other people
do this too if you guys have watched one
of my recent videos about how I stay so
motivated and how I get a lot of work
done I say that you should reward
yourself with snacks yeah this
definitely works and I'm happy to see
that other people are doing it too
although bounty is very dead I'm pretty
sure nobody eats that comment down below
what your favorite chocolate bar is mine
probably has to be Snickers or Mars
first year medical student finally a
doctor
please no please please no I mean I know
these memes are all fun and games but I
hope this doesn't happen
mmm that's sweet my sympathetic nervous
system when I'm doing a presentation yep
fully active and firing me why does my
chest hurt
Google cuz you're about to die you
realize you left everything in till last
minute so your overnight needs to be
sixty three hours longer this is why I
don't leave things to the last minute
this exact place right here that looks
stressful and that looks scary and I
want nothing to do with it when a
non-medical person gives you medical
advice mm-hmm tell me more tell me more
obviously as medical students we think
we know everything and we go around
diagnosing all of our friends and
whatever after an exam we start
remembering the questions and the
correct answers like oh I had this just
the other day I was so certain that I'd
put down the right answer and then I
came home and googled it and it turned
out I was wrong and yeah basically felt
like my head was on fire after my Olfa
presentation me the class my teacher my
friend oh man I'm horrible with
presentations I guess so nervous I guess
so shy I get red and sweaty I hate hate
hate giving presentations but if you've
got some good friends to give you more
support then that definitely helps
December in life of med student around
the world medical college yep I mean I
spent a huge portion of my Christmas
break studying for my upcoming exam
it's just what you've got to do when the
professor is passionate about teaching
and you genuinely understand and enjoy
the class vibes
mood mood I can relate so hard every now
and again you'll have a lecture where
you really like that content or
professor you just love their teaching
style and feel that you can understand
everything that they're saying very well
and it's just great it feels like the
sun is shining down on you and you have
this beam of radiation and motivation to
learn medicine yeah it's great I have so
much to study today also me excuses no
no no no no don't make excuses make a
plan and finish all your work waiting
for the use of krebs cycle knowledge and
fitness in practice yeah it's never
gonna come you will literally never ever
ever need the Krebs cycle you just have
to memorize it pass all of your exams
and to get into Medical School and I
promise you'll never use it again
actually maybe for one thing g6pd
deficiency I can study with music helps
me concentrate me ten minutes later me
every single time the reason that I
don't listen to music when I study for
my exams is because I just start rapping
whatever the lyrics are or I start
bumping my head and going along to the
beat I can't listen to music and also
focus on something else at the same time
the only time I can listen to music when
studying is if it's an instrumental and
that's a jazz and hip-hop instrumental
playlist or if I'm doing something that
takes absolutely no thinking with words
so for example if I'm doing math
calculations or drawing out different
chemical structures back in chemistry
when I'm studying that then I can listen
to music with word but if I'm reading
words and listen to music with words
can't get anything done okay please
start studying that's a good one when
you incorrectly self diagnose yourself
with the help of dr. Google and WebMD I
mean this definitely happens to me but
I'm just gonna replace dr. Google and
WebMD with me and myself anytime I have
a little bit of chest pain or my feet
are tingling or for some reason my heart
is beating extra fast I will immediately
start thinking about all the medical
diagnosis that I've learned about
honestly I need to chill I'm 24 I'm fit
and healthy I don't need to be scaring
myself with all of these thoughts all
year a night before exam
serving some so kind of a cure for me I
tend to study throughout the year so
that this over here doesn't happen to me
the night before the exam however for
one of my progress tests in second year
the paper was handed to me and I started
looking through the questions and I just
couldn't shake the feeling that I was
sitting the wrong exam I kept looking at
the questions and I was like I've never
seen this before I've never studied this
before what is this material and so I
called over the invigilator and I was
like hey are you sure this is the paper
for second year medical students sitting
there second progress test and she was
like yes so I was like okay guess I have
to continue now and then after flipping
through a couple more questions and a
couple more pages I was still so shocked
that the material I was seeing I was
like I don't understand what half of
this means I called her over again and I
asked again are you 100% sure that this
exam is relevant to me as a second-year
medical student and she's like yep and
at that point just had to suck it up and
go through the exam that was not a fun
time during pharmacology exams what are
the side effects of yeah basically
almost all drugs will have side effects
of nausea vomiting and diarrhea so if
you don't know the answer to the
question that's probably your best guess
when you wake up in the morning and it
feels like you only slept for eight
minutes oh my god all too often way way
way too often especially if I'm going to
placement I end up waking up and around
6 a.m. and then have like an hour and a
half of traveling to do so I feel like
this all the time though medicine is all
about studying for five years
no Sun it's five zero years I mean this
is absolutely true when you finish high
school and you get accepted to medical
school you're like yay five years and
I'm gonna finally be a doctor but then
after that you have your core medical
training and then you have your
specialty training and it's just endless
endless studying endless exams and
continual learning for life personally I
don't find this to be a bad thing about
medicine I love continuous learning I
love learning new things all the time so
I'm really excited about this aspect of
my career but yeah the exams don't stop
and there's definitely a lot of studying
to do the medical student examine you
please patient oh man so when you're in
the hospital and you're a medical
student obviously patients know that
you're not real doctors and so some of
them are less inclined to have you
examine them or take a history from them
because they think we're you're not
gonna help them and it's just a waste of
their time I'm not gonna lie though the
vast majority of patients that I've seen
in the hospital that I've interacted
with have been very pleasant and more
than willing to talk to me and let me
some in them when the patient changes
his history in front of the attending oh
my god you'll be asked to go take a
history from a patient which is great
you go you ask them about their
presenting complaint the history of
sending and playing social history
family history they'll give you all this
wonderful information then you'll go and
report back all the information to your
senior he'll come with you to see the
patient again and ask any more questions
that they want to know the patient will
tell you yeah my chest pain started 10
days ago and then when you're there with
your senior and you ask when the chest
pain started they'll say it started
yesterday or three days ago
so yeah this actually does happen after
you studied everything for these um just
before sleeping you do a mental review
and realize you know nothing I mean this
always happens before exam so you feel
like you don't know anything and then
you go in there and somehow your brain
manages to pick up the information that
you need the last molecule serotonin in
my brain doing its best to make sure I
have a good day
that's really good that's good my
fitness goal is to be able to do two
minutes of CPR without looking like I
need to be coded myself CPR is very very
tiring if you've ever done a basic life
support or advanced life support course
and had to do CPR on a dummy then you'll
know it's really really tiring and you
have to keep doing CPR non-stop until
the ambulance arrives until the AED
arrives and if you don't have someone
else to switch out with and keep
rotating then it can be very very
exhausting pre-med med school oh you
know I go really happy when I got to
medical school pre-med was some of the
most difficult times of my life with the
amount of studying and work and
everything that I had to do now that I'm
in medical school I am so happy I'm
finally on the path that I wanted to be
on for so long I'm learning so many
wonderful new things it's amazing
multiple-choice questions be like Oh
mine's in my undergraduate degree we had
multiple-choice questions where only one
out of the five responses was correct
however in medical school we have what's
called single best answer questions
which means that more than one of the
answers can be correct is just about
which one is more correct or which one
you need to do first and this is so
frustrating in our medical school exams
because I'll eliminate three out of the
five answers and be left with two which
are both completely correct and both of
which I've studied for and I know our
potential answers to this question but
of course one of them is more
appropriate for the patient or more
the correct thing to do at this current
time and you just have to choose what
you think is best I think I should study
on my bed so I can rest my okay very
very relatable I have had back problems
for as long as I can remember now and so
in order to leave you that back pain I
would often go to my bed and try and do
some studying there but inevitably after
10 15 20 minutes I would get so sleepy I
just have to move right back that's a
good one
me trying to enter medical school
squeeze it you can do it buddy beat out
the competition
get those good grades do your work
experience come on go go go thank you
medical school let me in let me in it's
a lot of work it's a lot of work but I
promise it's worth it and it's very very
fun alright guys this video has gone on
for quite a while now this is definitely
the pick-me-up that I needed today I'm
in a much better mood hope you guys are
having a great time at medical school or
in high school or university whatever it
is you're doing working hard toward your
goals I hope you guys are having a
wonderful day and I will see you in the
next one peace
you